---
title: "Variables"
description: "Variables evaluated for re-use"
---

## Motivation

If you have variables that are reoccurring, you may want to store them in a single place so you can reference them from multiple scans.

For example, if your workflow is scoped to a single domain, and you want to store your workflow as a template, you may want to leverage
`var` context. Then, in your project, all you need to do is define `var`, and create a workflow from a template.

Other variables are used for dynamic execution. If your workflow depends on the output from another workflow, you may want to reference the output
file. But since the directory is not deterministic, it would be impossible to provide a path to a file. You can leverage workflow template
variables to do just that.

## Context variables

Context variables are selected using `${{}}` syntax. The reason is to avoid having conflicts with shells that are most commonly used. However, template evaluation is currently completely evaluated on the server side, so the runner will receive an expanded shell script. Nevertheless, seeing `${{ var.domain }}` serves as a visual focus point to help you distinguish between shells `${}`, and `${{}}`. It has almost the same semantics, but does not collide with special symbols used by the shell.

### Var

Var stands for variable. It is evaluated on the server. You can define as many workflow variables as you would like by visiting your project, and under `Workflow settings` tab,
you will see a list of variables. It is a key-value pair. The key is used as a reference, and the value is the value that will replace that template.

So let's say we define variable `domain` as `bountyhub.org`. Then `${{ var.domain }}` will be replaced with `bountyhub.org`.

Example workflow step:

```yaml
steps:
  - run: assetfinder ${{ var.domain }} | tee $BH_RESULT/out.txt
    shell: bash
```

::alert{type="warning"}
If variable does not exist at the time the workflow needs to be sent to the runner, the workflow will fail.
::

### Job

The job context variable allows you to reference another job's successful output. When workflow is parsed, this context variable will evaluate
to the latest successful execution of a job. It is intended to be used to reference a dependency scan.

Let's say we intend to run `assetfinder` on a schedule. Then, `nmap` should take those results and run a port-scan once `assetfinder` finishes.

It can be accomplished by writing:

```yaml
- name: nmap
  on:
    dependency:
      - name: assetfinder
        trigger: done
  steps:
    - run: nmap -iL ${{ job.assetfinder }}/out.txt -oA $BH_RESULT/nmap
      shell: bash
```

At this point, `job.assetfinder` evaluates to the `uuid` of the latest successful execution of `assetfinder` scan. Runner will download and extract
entire result directory uploaded by assetfinder.

::alert{type="warning"}
Validation is impossible here. Please make sure that the file you are referencing is uploaded by the scan.
::

### Group

Group can be used in 2 ways. One way is so you can visualize combined output in the UI. Another way is that you can use the combined output as an
input to your command.

Let's say we are running assetfinder and the subfinder. We want the output to be combined, and used as an input to the `nmap` for simplicity.

In the workflow, we have defined:

```yaml
groups:
  - name: subdomainDiscovery
    uses:
      - scan: assetfinder
        file: out.txt
        grep: (.*)
        extract: $1
      - scan: subfinder
        file: out.txt
        grep: "(.*)"
        extract: $1
```

Group combine will use latest successful outputs from each command.

Then, we define nmap step as:

```yaml
steps:
  - run: nmap -iL ${{ group.subdomainDiscovery }}/out.txt -oA $BH_RESULT/nmap
    shell: bash
```

## Environment variables

### `$BH_` prefix

To avoid collisions, `BH_` prefix naming environment variables is reserved. However, you can still expose environment variables on your own that are named with this prefix. However, doing so you are opening yourself to possible issues when new environment variables are added in future releases.

This may change to `BOUNTYHUB_`, but it felt too descriptive for common variable, and `BH_` is much easier to type.

### `$BH_RESULT`

Whenever a job lands on the runner, the runner will create a result directory stored at `{WORKDIR}/{JOB_ID}_result`. The common mistake is to store results by writing to the `$BH_RESULT`. It should be stored in a file located in the `$BH_RESULT` directory, like `$BH_RESULT/{JOB_ID}/output.txt`.
