---
title: "Template"
---

# Motivation

If you have variables that are reoccurring, you may want to store them in a single place, so you can reference them from multiple scans.

For example, if your workflow is scoped to a single domain, and you want to store your workflow as a template, you may want to leverage
`var` context. Then, in your project, all you need to do is define `var`, and create a workflow from a template.

Other variables are used for dynamic execution. If your workflow depends on the output from another workflow, you may want to reference the output
file. But since the directory is not deterministic, it would be impossible to provide a path to a file. You can leverage workflow template
variables to do just that.

# Template evaluation

Each run in the workflow is actually a template string. For each step, template is validated when the workflow is saved. Template validation will verify that you are not using a `job` that does not exist. However, validation skips validating vars, since they can be added or removed at any time.

Template consists of 2 parts:

- Plain string constants: For example `nmap -p-`.
- Dynamic expression using context variables: using `${{ }}` syntax.

When the scan is scheduled to run on a runner, template is evaluated. From the time when the scan is scheduled, to the time when it runs, user may delete some job. To avoid using stale data, the most recent outputs are used at the time when the job actually runs.

## Context variables

Context variables are selected using `${{}}` syntax. The reason is to avoid having conflicts with shells that are most commonly used. However, template evaluation is currently completely evaluated on the server side, so the runner will receive an expanded shell script. Nevertheless, seeing `${{ var.domain }}` serves as a visual focus point to help you distinguish between shells `${}`, and `${{}}`. It has almost the same semantics, but does not collide with special symbols used by the shell.

### Var

Var stands for variable. It is evaluated on the server. You can define as many workflow variables as you would like by visiting your project, and under `Workflow settings` tab,
you will see a list of variables. It is a key-value pair. The key is used as a reference, and the value is the value that will replace that template.

So let's say we define variable `domain` as `bountyhub.org`. Then `${{ var.domain }}` will be replaced with `bountyhub.org`.

Example workflow step:

```yaml
steps:
  - run: assetfinder ${{ var.domain }}
    shell: bash
```

::alert{type="warning"}
If variable does not exist at the time the workflow needs to be sent to the runner, the workflow will fail.
::

### Job

The job context variable allows you to reference another job's successful output. When workflow is parsed, this context variable will evaluate
to the latest successful execution of a job. It is intended to be used to reference a dependency scan.

Let's say we intend to run `assetfinder` on a schedule. Then, `nmap` should take those results and run a port-scan once `assetfinder` finishes.

It can be accomplished by writing:

```yaml
steps:
  - run: nmap -iL ${{ job.assetfinder }}/out.txt -oA nmap
    shell: bash
```

At this point, `job.assetfinder` evaluates to the `uuid` of the latest successful execution of `assetfinder` scan. Runner will download and extract
entire result directory uploaded by assetfinder.

::alert{type="warning"}
Validation is impossible here. Please make sure that the file you are referencing is uploaded by the scan.
::