---
title: "Scheduling"
description: "How workflows are scheduled"
---

## Picking the runner

Right now, there is no mechanism to pick on which runner the workflow should execute. The assumption is that most places where the runner is will contain required tooling and ability to execute the job.

This may change if there is a need for it. There is no reason for implementing complicated logic before the actual problem is completely understood.

## A life of a job

Each job is either scheduled by the cron job, or by an event emitted by the job result. Read more on [Workflow Syntax](/workflows/syntax#scanson)

### Job creation

There are two main mechanisms uses to create a job:

1. Cron
1. Dependency

Regardless of the trigger (cron or dependency), if the job is created for the relevant scan, and the job is in state `scheduled` or `running`, the job will be skipped and scheduled on the next event. The reason is that sequential execution of tools will most likely provide the same result, so scheduling the same job multiple times only increases storage without added benefits.

### Job resolution

Once the job is created, we are not creating a plan for it. The reason is that until the runner picks it up, we don't know what will be the last successful execution of the dependent scans.

When the runner asks for the job, and there are scheduled jobs, at that moment, the platform resolves dependencies, evaluates template variables and sends that job to the runner.

### Job skipped and job cancelled on error

Once the runner polls a scheduled job, the execution plan is created. If the execution plan suggests that the dependencies for a successful execution of a job are not met, the job will be marked as skipped and it will wait for the next event in order to be scheduled.

#### Example when job is skipped:

Let's say we define scan A that `uses` scan B. Let's say that some event created an instance of a job for scan A.

When runner polls, scan A does contain a job so we start building a plan. But scan B does not have successful jobs yet. Since job A depends on the successful execution of job B, job A will be skipped.

### Job automatic cancellation

Let's say that we have a scan A, and one of its steps contain a template variable `${{ var.domain }}`. If the variable does not exist on the project level at the time the plan is created, the job will be canceled.
