---
title: "Announcements"
---

# Announcements

## Introduced dispatch for expression scans

Hey everyone, I would like to announce a new feature that allows you to dispatch expression scans!

Previously, you could only dispatch the workflow that runs on dispatch or cron. It made sense at the time since for a cron job,
you may want to schedule it sooner than the next scheduled run.

Expression scans however, have a dependency on other scan. So at the time, it didn't make sense to dispatch something since it would
be triggered by its dependencies.

However, what if you rely on the project variables, secrets, or other external inputs? Then if those were not provided, the scan would fail.
The worst of all, you wouldn't have the ability to re-schedule it until the expression is satisfied again.

I played around with the idea of re-runs, but that also didn't make sense. The evaluation of the job occurs during the time it is sent to the runner.
This makes sense since you always want to use the latest results. However, what if, in the meantime, you remove the job execution that scheduled the expression scan?

It would fail again.

So, instead of re-runs, I simply added the ability to dispatch the expression scan. Just be careful when dispatching it and understand what scan results
from the dependencies are going to be used.

New features like this arise from my own use-cases, and feedbacks I receive from you. So please, if you have any suggestions, do not hesitate to 
submit a [feature request](https://github.com/bountyhub-org/platform/issues/new?template=2-platform-feature-request.ymlhttps://github.com/bountyhub-org/platform/issues/),
or provide feedback on the [feedback form](https://forms.gle/2xtWVJENLAf3XJjA9).

## New `env` field is added, followed by the `runner` 0.8.0 release 

New `env` field is added to the workflow, which allows you to define environment variables that are available in the workflow context.
This is especially useful when you want to pass the `BOUNTYHUB_TOKEN` to the workflow, or when you want to pass some other environment variables that are needed for the workflow to run.

Since the `env` field is added, the runner is also updated to support it. The new runner version 0.8.0 is released, and it includes the support for the `env` field.
The new runner version is available on the [releases page](https://github.com/bountyhub-org/runner/releases/tag/0.8.0).

## Working on more responsive UI

I am currently working on making the UI more responsive, and more user-friendly. The goal is to make the UI more intuitive, and easier to use.
The biggest change is that pages will be more responsive, and will have more space for the content. 

This means that the pages will be easier to read on smaller screens. Let's say your scan had some nice findings, but you are not near your computer.
You should be able to take a look at the findings on your phone, and see what is going on. This is the goal of the new UI.

Some pages have already been updated, but there is still a lot of work to be done. That being said, you can use the option on your phone browser
to view the desktop version of the site, and it should work just fine.

Best of luck with your hunting! 🎯

## New runner 0.7.0, and new `bh` CLI are released 0.4.0 🎉

New runner has been [released](https://github.com/bountyhub-org/runner/releases/tag/0.7.0).
The new runner release uses the new `/messages` endpoint that communicates the job cancelled messages as well as job assigned messages.
This is a breaking change, so please make sure to update the runner to the latest version.

Previously, the runner would eventually fail executing the job when job cancellation occured. This new change allows quicker
reaction to the job cancellation, and allows the runner to pick up new jobs quicker.

This release also comes with the `allow_failed`, along with documented change, and editor hint.

Another improvement in this release is that runner capacity is now always propagated, but only calculated on the server side.
This means that the job cancelled messages are included in the capacity calculation, and the runner will receive the job right away.

The new `bh` CLI version 0.4.0 includes a breaking change in the `bh blob download`. The command now uses the same `--src` and `--dst` flags
as the `bh blob upload` command. This is to make the commands more consistent, and to allow easier usage of the commands.

If the `--dst` is not set, the command will default to the file name of the requested blob.

## New snippet section has been added to the workflow side-bar

New section has been added to the workflow side-bar, where you can add snippets that can be used in the workflow.
This section will continue to expand, and contains useful snippets you can quickly look up when building up your workflow.

For example, `bh job download` is frequently used command, and it is now available in the snippets section.

If you have any suggestions for the snippets, please submit a [feature request](https://github.com/bountyhub-org/prod).

## Runner version 0.6.1 is released 🎉

New runner has been [released](https://github.com/bountyhub-org/runner/releases/tag/0.6.1)! The new release contains
bug fixes especially related to timeouts during long poll requesting jobs.

You can upgrade the runner using `./runner upgrade` command, or you can download the new version from the [releases page](https://github.com/bountyhub-org/runner/releases/tag/0.6.1)

As always, feel free to reach out or ask questions on the [support](https://bountyhub.org/support) page! Thank you for using BountyHub! ❤️

## Runner version 0.6.0 is released 🎉

New runner has been [released](https://github.com/bountyhub-org/runner/releases/tag/0.6.0) to acompany the new release of the `secret` feature.
Along with the new expression (`${{ secrets.<SECRET_NAME> }}`), the runner now masks the log output transforming the
secret values into `***`.

This release also includes the bugfix related to sending the logs to the server.

Try it out, and let me know if you have any issues!

## Project secrets are now available

I am happy to announce that project secrets are now available! 🎉

With addition to project vars, it is much easier to provide `BOUNTYHUB_TOKEN` as a project secret, instead of
configuring the runner with the `BOUNTYHUB_TOKEN` environment variable.

This way, you can rotate, change permissions, and manage the token from the UI, instead of having to
reconfigure the runner every time you want to change the token.
The project secrets are available in the workflow context, and you can use them in the workflow.

## BountyHub is now officially in Beta

I am happy to announce that BountyHub is now officially in Beta! 🎉
This means that the platform is now stable enough to be used in production, and I will start charging for the service.
The platform is still in Beta, and I will be working on improving the platform based on your feedback.
I will be adding new features and fixing bugs, but the platform is now stable enough to be used in production.

The company is now registered in the US, and I will be working on adding billing to the platform.
It will take some time, but I will keep you updated on the progress.

Please, continue to provide feedback and report bugs. I will be working on improving the platform based on your feedback.
The feedback form is still available, and I will be using it to prioritize the features and bugs that need to be fixed.

Happy hunting! 🎯

## PostHog is now used for analytics

I am happy to announce that the analytics are finally implemented! 🎉

The analytics are implemented using [PostHog](https://posthog.com/) and are GDPR-compliant. The data is anonymized,
and only the minimal necessary data is collected to analyze trends.

The data is stored in the EU, and the data is not shared with any third parties except for PostHog.

However, I understand that some people might not be comfortable with the analytics, and I respect that.
Therefore, I made sure that the analytics are opt-in. This means that you can choose to enable or disable the analytics.
Both of these options are available in the [settings](https://bountyhub.org/settings) page.

I would encourage you to keep it enabled, since it helps me understand how the platform is used and how to improve it.

Having said that, I will start creating tutorials to help you create and optimize your workflows in the near future.
As always, feel free to reach out or ask questions! You can find all contact details on the [support](https://bountyhub.org/support) page!

Thank you for your support, and I hope you enjoy using BountyHub! ❤️

## `bh` CLI 0.3.1 is released

I know it has been a while since the last release, but I'm happy to announce that the new `bh` CLI version 0.3.1 is released!

The new release contains the dependencies update, and the fix related to the URL encoding of path where `blob` file contains spaces.

This API might not be ideal, because it uses the PATH encoded blob path, so please keep up with the updates, since this API is likely to change in the future.

As always, feel free to reach out or ask questions on the [support](https://bountyhub.org/support) page! Thank you for using BountyHub! ❤️

## Bhlast server configuration is replaced with the form-based one

New DNS configuration replacing the old way of configuring bhlast servers using `YAML` file with the form-based configuration.

This configuration is much more user-friendly, and it is much easier to use. It is familiar to people who already purchased domains
and had to configure DNS records in various domain registrars.

Currently, only DNS configuration is supported, but in the future, multiple configuration options will be added for HTTP(s) routes, etc.

## Runner version 0.5.0 is released 🎉

New runner has been released and it comes with a very nice feature!

The runner can now be upgraded using the `upgrade` command. This command will fetch the latest release,
and upgrade the runner to the latest version, replacing the current runner binary with the new one.

Another big feature released is that you can specify the environment variables inside the workflow, that are local
to the scan. This way, you can easily pass the `BOUNTYHUB_TOKEN` to the scan, or rotate it without having to restart the runner.

The important thing to note is that I decided against the auto-upgrade. The reason for it is that the runner is
that the releases are increasingly more stable, and if auto-upgrade is enabled and it breaks, you will stop getting
scans executed. If you don't upgrade, the worst case scenario is that you can't use the shiny new feature without the upgrade.
If you update the scan that depends on that feature, and the scan fails, you get the notification.

On the other hand, if the self upgrade fails, the runner goes offline, and you don't get any notification. This is much worse
than not having the feature available.

## Blob storage can now have directories

New feature has been added to the blob storage. You can now have directories in the blob storage. This is especially useful when you use folders
to logically separate files uploaded for jobs. Let's say you want to keep the list of active subdomains in one file, and the list of inactive subdomains
in another file. But you also have multiple projects. Now, you can logically separate the files by using directories. Handy, right?

Check it out, and let me know if you have any issues!

## Cron spec has been updated to UNIX cron format

The cron spec has been updated to the UNIX cron format. The reason behind it is that using seconds would put too much pressure on the scheduler, and would make it harder to schedule the jobs, increasing latency. There would be almost no use of having seconds in the cron spec, and it is unintuitive to people writing the cron who previously used the UNIX cron format.

The new spec has been migrated, along with workflows. If you have any issues, please report them on the [GitHub issues](https://github.com/bountyhub-org/platform/issues).

As always, feel free to reach out or ask questions on the [support](https://bountyhub.org/support) page.

## Introducing Blob Storage and `bh` CLI 0.3.0 Release

We are excited to announce the new blob storage feature and the release of `bh` CLI version 0.3.0!

### Blob Storage

Blob storage allows you to store assets on the platform without tying them to a specific job. This is particularly useful for continuous scans on assets like subdomains, active links, and pages.

#### Example Use-Case: Continuous Subdomain Scanning

1. **Daily Scan**: Run `subfinder` daily.
2. **Store Results**: Keep results of the last scan invocation inside the job (`uploads` field).
3. **Download Last Scan**: Download the last invocation of the `subfinder` scan.
4. **Compute Differences**: Compare the last scan results with the current results.
5. **Check Differences**: If there are no differences, do nothing.
6. **Manage Files**:
   - Download `{projectname}-live-subdomains.txt` and `{projectname}-dead-subdomains.txt` from blob storage.
   - Update `{projectname}-live-subdomains.txt` with new subdomains and remove inactive ones.
   - Update `{projectname}-dead-subdomains.txt` with inactive subdomains and remove active ones.
7. **Upload Updated Files**: Upload the updated files back to blob storage.
8. **Utilize Files**: Use the updated files as needed.

### `bh` CLI 0.3.0 Features

The new `bh` CLI version 0.3.0 includes the following commands:

- `bh blob download`: Download a blob from the server.
- `bh blob upload`: Upload a blob to the server.

### Important Note

New permissions have been added to the Personal Access Token (PAT). Please update your PATs to include the `blob` permission.

We hope you find these new features useful. Happy hunting!

## Runner version 0.4.0 is released 🎉

New runner has been [released](https://github.com/bountyhub-org/runner/releases/tag/0.4.0), and it comes with a very nice feature!

The job config environment variables are exposed through so that `bh` commands frequently used are simpler and reduce boilerplate.

For example, you can now use the following command to download the job:

```bash
bh job download -j ${{ scans.subfinder[0].id }} -o output.zip
```

Previously, you had to use all of the following flags:

```bash
bh job download -p ${{ project.id }} -w ${{ workflow.id }} -r ${{ revision.id }} -j ${{ scans.subfinder[0].id }} -o output.zip
```

Next big thing will probably be auto updates. Having auto updates will allow
seamless way to keep the runner up to date with the latest features and fixes on the server.

Since the platform is still in beta, the APIs can change in order to improve performance,
answer to the user feedback, or to fix the bugs. There should be a proper way
to keep your runners alive, while the APIs are changing. This is the first step to that direction.

## Heads-up, analytics will be added to improve user experience

With many sign-ups stopping right after creating a project, I started wondering what might be causing users to stop before they can fully leverage the platform. Since everyone is already on a free tier, you can start using automation without paying anything.

To better understand user interactions and improve the platform, I'm taking the following steps:

- **Introduce GDPR-compliant analytics**: Implement analytics that adhere to privacy laws, ensuring only the minimal necessary data is collected to analyze trends. This is a platform for hackers, after all, and privacy **must** be respected completely.
- **Launch the BountyHub YouTube channel**: Create a YouTube channel featuring tutorials to help you create and optimize your workflows.
- **Enhance the workflow UI and tools**: After reviewing feedback, I'll prioritize improving the user interface and tools to make workflow creation more intuitive and efficient.
- **Simplify the runner installation process**: Streamline the installation process for the runner, making it easier for you to get started.

As always, please use the links provided on the [support](https://bountyhub.org/support) page if you have any concerns!

You'll be informed with an announcement and a change in the platform's policy as soon as the analytics are done. This work won't start for at least 2 weeks, giving you enough time to raise questions and concerns.

Good luck with your hunting! 🎯

## Announcing new Personal Access Token UI along with `bh` 0.2.0 release

New addition of dispatch inputs to the workflow must go hand in hand with the ability to dispatch
inputs using the `bh` CLI. However, implementing this feature I noticed that handling personal access
tokens is suboptimal, and the interface was quite bad. So I decided to rework the current PAT token implementation,
along with the newest addition to this release.

New PAT is in the same format, it is completely backwards compatible, and you shouldn't see any disruptions
with your old PAT. But the UI is much simpler, and allows now re-generation of the same token, along with
token expiry dates.

New scopes are added, but are not yet part of the `bh` tool since I'm not yet sure how to properly output it.

If you have any ideas, please submit a [feature request](https://github.com/bountyhub-org/bh/issues/new),
submit [feedback](https://forms.gle/2xtWVJENLAf3XJjA9), or let me know via an e-mail.

It never hurts to mention that [support page](https://bountyhub.org/support) is built, so you can easily
find links that you need.

Important thing to mention is that new `bh` release comes with the `env` fallback. All `env`s are prefixed
with `BOUNTYHUB_` which serves as a namespace, so they don't override your common environment variables.

Having said that, new runner will be released soon, and will expose these environment variables for each step.
This would massively simplify download steps where mostly, you would just have to specify the `-j` flag and the
`-o` flag.

Preview:

```bash
# Old usage
bh job download -p ${{ project.id }} -w ${{ workflow.id }} -r ${{ revision.id }} -j ${{ scans.subfinder[0].id }} -o output.zip
# New and shiny use
bh job download -j ${{ scans.subfinder[0].id }} -o output.zip
```

As always, happy hunting!

## Runner version 0.3.0 is released

Along with the [Major back-end release](#major-back-end-release), new runner release is created.

Packages are updated, inputs are well understood, and logs are correctly propagated!

[Try it out](https://github.com/bountyhub-org/runner/releases/tag/0.3.0)!

## Major back-end release 🔥

After few weeks of hacking of trying out different approaches to scan attack surface, I noticed
that if scans last too long, logs won't be propagated properly. This is also true if the network
connectivity is interrupted, causing issues to continue streaming logs to the back-end.

Therefore, entire new way of log streaming has been created. Log lines are now periodically
propagated from the runner as JSON array, and slowly appended to the logs. This way, it is much
easier to add retries, cover failure cases, or simply, continue to build up log until back-end
flushes it to the storage.

Another **HUGE** feature is having dispatch inputs finally available. Now, you should be able to
define on-demand scans that accept inputs. This feature is intended to be used both from the UI,
and from the `bh` tool once it is released.

## Runner version 0.2.2 is released

New runner has been [released](https://github.com/bountyhub-org/runner/releases/tag/0.2.2) 🎉!

This release comes with the fix to `is_available`, and the fix to the `cellang` package that
fixed something like `scans.subfinder.filter(x, x.state == 'succeeded')[0].id`.

This fix includes updates to internal packages to its latest version. To be honest, `is_available` and
`cellang` update is enough for the new release 😊.

In the future, auto-update should be implemented. However, workflow validation is prioritized at this time,
and the fixes related to the UI experience. Having said that, it doesn't hurt to re-mention the
feedback form you can fill [here](https://forms.gle/2xtWVJENLAf3XJjA9).

## Improved performance of Bhlast DNS servers

While using the server, a 5-second delay was noticed that could potentially be the duration between
you finding a bug and request timing out. That wouldn't be a too much of an issue since the DNS interactions
are recorded regardless of the cancelation. However, if the DNS lookup was made so HTTP(s) request could
be issued, some clients might time out before the request is completely done.

Therefore, the DNS server is completely refactored to improve performance. Few additional handlers are added
for IPv6, and ANY lookup is completely disabled.

Please submit an issue if you find that ANY lookup is needed. It is deprecated for quite some time now, and it is
usually used by adversaries for DNS amplification attack. Therefore, this query type is completely removed.

There is more room for improvement that I know of right now, however, current performance seems perfectly good.
To avoid introducing complexity to the service, and to prioritize more important things, I decided not to go
further with optimizations. If you disagree, I'm always here to chat!

## Feedback form is live and ready for your feedback!

Feedback form is live and ready for your feedback! You can find it [here](https://forms.gle/2xtWVJENLAf3XJjA9).

Please fill it out, so I can improve the platform and make it more useful for you!

## Runner version 0.2.1 is released

New runner has been [released](https://github.com/bountyhub-org/runner/releases/tag/0.2.1) 🎉!

After publishing the [cellang](https://crates.io/crates/cellang) crate which is an interpreter for the CEL language,
the runner is now using it to evaluate the expressions. The purpose of this is to expose lower level primitives
associated with CEL language, so they can later be used to validate the workflow or provide an LSP.

This change is not a breaking change, since the library is simply a drop-in replacement for the previous one.
If you encounter any issues, please report them on the [GitHub issues](https://github.com/bountyhub-org/runner/issues).
You can also revert to the previous version since the change is not breaking.

## Runner version 0.2.0 is released

New runner has been [released](https://github.com/bountyhub-org/runner/releases/tag/0.2.0) 🎉!

This release contains major refactor on client to be able to refresh the session. The session token is switched from JWT to random UUID v4. There are two session tokens used by the runner:

1. **Runner session token** - Used by the runner to request jobs and keep it alive.
2. **Worker session token** - Used by the runner worker to resolve the job and execute it.

Since there are different use-cases for them, each session token have a different lifetime.

Runner session token lasts for 30 days. If your runner is kept offline for more than 30 days, you will have to
re-register the runner.

Worker session token lasts for 4 hours. This should be enough time for the worker to finish the job. If job gets
stuck, session token would expire which would cancel the job and release the runner to pick up other jobs in case
there is a bug in a workflow.

## Billing is almost done

I'm currently opening a company based in US. Until the bank account is opened, I cannot meaningfully implement
any meaningful plans and charges. However, everyone is assigned a free plan. Plan management is implemented, so
it is possible to reach out if you need a better plan before the billing is completely done.

Please do not shy away to ask for a better plan. Once bank account is opened and billing is done, there will be
a period of 30 days before I connect the billing to the bank account, so you can always decide to downgrade your plan.

## Runner is now open-sourced

It was always intention to open-source the runner, however, the design and the protocol between the runner and the server was not stable enough to open source it.

The design of the runner (code-wise) is stable enough now, so open-sourcing it is the next logical step.

This is not to say that the protocol cannot change in the future. But it is unlikely to be modified in the near future.

Take a look and leverage [GitHub issues](https://github.com/bountyhub-org/runner/issues) and [discussions](https://github.com/bountyhub-org/runner/discussions) to help me and others improve the service.

## SSE (Server-Sent Events) are available now

New SSE functionality is implemented to have live updates on the site.

This is especially important when you want to `dispatch` the workflow, or when you are
waiting for some job to finish.

It also tracks live interactions with your `bhlast` server,
so you can see interactions happening while you are on the page.

## New `bhlast` servers instead of `callback` ones

For the purpose of replacing burp collaborator, new `bhlast.com` domain is purchased.
The intention is to have server live all the time, to keep track of any blind payload executions,
second-order calls caused in asynchronous back-end systems, DNS interactions and more.

This project is heavily influenced by an amazing work on [interactsh](https://github.com/projectdiscovery/interactsh).

Since the intention of the platform is to automate the boring stuff, provisioning your server can be done with a
click of the button! And please where with me or with others if this new feature helped you find your bounty!

## API changes

Since the platform is in beta stage, breaking changes are to be expected. To communicate that
the API is still unstable, the version of the API is changed from `/v1` to `/v0`.

Tooling for the API change is also updated to reflect this change.

Important thing to note is that `bh` tool is re-released under the `0.1.0` tag. The reason for it
is that the tool is currently used only by me, so I wanted to eliminate confusion where the
previously released versions `0.1.0` and `0.2.0` are deprecated. This won't happen in the future
since the `bh` tool is now released in [crates.io](https://crates.io/crates/bh).

## New bh tool has been released

The new tool officially supported has been released to talk to the BountyHub API.

The tool is open-sourced, and the code is available [here](https://github.com/bountyhub-org/bh).

It comes with installation instructions, and the future releases will be released under `0.x.x` version. This will be true until the platform has the stable API (i.e. the platform is out of `beta`).

All examples in the docs are updated to use this tool. Looking forward to your feedback!

## New workflow syntax has been released

The original workflow syntax was not powerful enough especially if you want to diff the previous invocations of the scan.
You would have to workaround the issue, and the workaround was not pretty.

The new syntax is related to expressions:

- The workflow `on.expr` now accepts the CEL based syntax.
- The `scans.[ID].steps[].if` is also moved to accept CEL expressions.
- Template is much powerful now, where the template is also a CEL expression that evaluates to string.

Most importantly, the expression engine now accepts the context, which is passed by the server. This requires a new
version of the runner. Since the change is the breaking one, the new runner is also released under the 0.1.0 tag.

Since the service was not yet officially announced, the change was overwritten to avoid having newcomers running the old, outdated version.

The most important thing is that syntax right now is much more stable and much more powerful. This change will allow further extensions on the workflow, such as continuing the run even if some steps are failing.

Along with the runner, new `bh` tool is about to be released. Currently, it only allows downloading the results, which is enough for the runner to do its job. I'm not yet sure how to best distribute it, and your feedback will be very valuable.

One of the reasons this service is not yet announced to the broad audience is, so we can figure out the pain points with the smaller audience, and based on your feedback, we can build stuff that is more stable.

I would encourage joining the [weekly call](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/embed?height=600&wkst=1&ctz=Europe/Belgrade&bgcolor=%23ffffff&src=Y180ZjZmOWQyYTlkYmMzYjliNDc4MGQwN2Q0MTYxNmJmODE0ZjM2ODQ5NTY4NDM3ZjUwMjhkNjUzMTE5NWI2ZmZjQGdyb3VwLmNhbGVuZGFyLmdvb2dsZS5jb20&color=%238E24AA). This is the best way to get to know each other and to communicate face-to-face the issues you are having.

Lastly, please keep an eye on announcements. The new tool will be released soon and unfortunately, until then, you won't be able to create dependencies between scans. But I can promise that you won't wait long! With the new tool, the runner documentation will also be improved, and more examples will be added to make it easier to maintain your runner installation.

Thank you for using this platform!

## Callback servers and payloads

New features are added to help find blind vulnerabilities. You can now register the server and listen to interactions to catch blind vulnerabilities. Server is listening on HTTP and HTTPS ports and is basically always live! Read more about this feature [here](https://docs.bountyhub.org/callback-servers/about).

Also, payloads are added to have a single place where you store payloads. Variables are also added, so you can replace and copy them quickly. Read more about payloads [here](https://docs.bountyhub.org/payloads/about).

Check it out! And please, do not hesitate to provide feedback 😊!

## BountyHub is in Alpha

BountyHub is now in alpha version. There are a lot of missing pieces and likely bugs, but hopefully, you will stick with it, and it is going to be awesome! For any feature requests, please submit a support ticket or e-mail me at [nikola.jokic@bountyhub.org](mailto:nikola.jokic@bountyhub.org).

There is also a [weekly call](https://bountyhub.org/bountyhub#meet). Feel free to join!
