# Configuration

Each configuration is defined using YAML. This feature is still in `alpha`, but working on improving it.

Let's discover configuration options for each server.

## DNS

Configuration portion under `dns` object is used to configure 
your custom DNS server.

If empty, the default resolver will still track interactions, and 
serve default responses.

You can always go back and configure it when needed.

### `dns.[subdomain]`

Under DNS, each field represents a subdomain of your own subdomain. 
That means that subdomain **MUST** follow the rules for subdomain.

::alert{type="danger"}
Each domain must have up to 255 characters. FQDN adds a dot to the normal
domain we all know. That means that `bountyhub.org` becomes `bountyhub.org.`.

Your own ID takes 16 characters, add 2 dots to it (before and after) and you
can specify a subdomain up to 226 ASCII characters.
::

### `dns.[subdomain].A`

This specification is an object defining the IP address with the optional TTL
parameter. This is the record that will be served for `A` lookup whenever
`[subdomain]` is requested.

### `dns.[subdomain].A.ip`

The IPv4 address served for the subdomain lookup.

### `dns.[subdomain].A.ttl`

The TTL used for this A record. If not specified, the default TTL
will be used.

### `dns.[subdomain].AAAA`

This specification is an object defining the IP address with the optional TTL
parameter. This is the record that will be served for `AAAA` lookup whenever
`[subdomain]` is requested.

### `dns.[subdomain].AAAA.ip`

The IPv6 address served for the subdomain lookup.

If you specify an IPv4 address, it will be converted to its IPv4 equivalent.

### `dns.[subdomain].AAAA.ttl`

The TTL used for this A record. If not specified, the default TTL
will be used.

### `dns.[subdomain].TXT`

This specification provides values served when `TXT` record is looked up.

### `dns.[subdomain].TXT.values`

Values used to serve when TXT record is requested.

### `dns.[subdomain].TXT.ttl`

Optional TTL parameter served when the TXT record is requested.
If not specified, the default TTL will be used.