---
title: "Blog"
---

# Blog

Blogs are a way to communicate with the community. They are a way to share your knowledge
with the rest of the community, and express your ideas. They are also a way to share your
experiences, and to share your knowledge with the rest of the community.

On the other hand, when hacking, you suddenly remember something that you have read, and
you can't remember where you have read it. You can bookmark blog posts from other users
and refer to them later.

## Writing a blog

To write a blog, you need to have a user account. You can create a user account by
visiting the [sign up](https://bountyhub.org/sign-up) page.

Once you have a user account, in the sidebar, you will see "My Blog" link. Clicking on
that link will take you to the page where you can create a new blog post.

Blog post is created as a draft right away. You can edit it and save progress as you go.
Once you are ready to publish, you can click on the "Save and publish" button.

### Blog post structure

Blog post consists of 4 main parts:

- Title - Title of the blog post
- Description - Short description of the blog post that is visible in the list of blog posts
- Labels - Labels are used to categorize blog posts. You can use labels to categorize your blog posts, and to make it easier for other users to find your blog posts.
- Content - Content of the blog post. You can use markdown to format your blog post.

Blog post is saved as HTML, but it does not allow styling. The reason is to make uniform look and feel of the blog posts.

It is also possible to embed images by uploading them from your computer, or referring to them using a link.

### Labels

Labels are used to categorize blog posts. You can use labels to categorize your blog posts, and to make it easier for other users to find your blog posts. You can use multiple labels for a single blog post. You can also use labels to find blog posts from other users.

Labels are in form of a handle, i.e. alphanumeric characters, and dashes. They are case insensitive.

### Content

Content is written using WYSIWYG editor. The editor used is [TipTap](https://www.tiptap.dev/). It is a rich text editor that allows you to format your text using markdown.

### Images

You can embed images in your blog post. You can upload images from your computer, or you can refer to them using a link. You can also use images from the internet, but make sure that you have the right to use them.

To upload an image, you can drag and drop it to the editor, or you can click on the "Upload image" button.
